1. GETTING STARTED
date - pulls up current date
cal - pulls up calendar
df - free disk space
free - free memory amount
pwd - shows current directory
ls - lists files and directories
man - type man, then a command and it'll pull up the description and available options/ flags for that command

2. FILE MANIPULATION
file - shows file type
less - views text file minmally (hit 'q' to exit)
mkdir - creates folder
cp - copies file into given directory or into the same directory with a given new name
mv - moves a file into a given directory or renames it given a secondary name
rm - removes a file or directory

3. WILDCARDS, HARD LINKS, & SYMBOLIC LINKS
    Wildcards - group of special characters used to specify a big group of file names, also called globbing 
        * - match any character with your query 
        ? - match any single character
        [abc] - specifies a range. If you did m[a,o,u]m it can become: mam, mum, mom if you did: m[a-d]m it can become anything that starts and ends with m and has any character a to d inbetween. For example, these would work: mam, mbm, mcm, mdm. This kind of wildcard specifies an “OR” relationship (you only need one to match).
        [!abc] - matches any other characters that're not in the brackets
    Links - ln command lets you create hard and symbolic Links. EX. ln pic picshortcut EX. ln -s pic picshortcut
        hardlink - original way of creating links, every file has one and it's what gives the file it's name. Creates an additional directory entry for a file but can't work outside it's own file system and can't reference a directory
        symbolic link - more modern and favourable version of links, it's like a windows shortcut

4. FILENAMES, HISTORY AND SHORTCUTS
    - there is a maximum filename length for any given file (255 characters)
    - filenames are case sensitive
    - specific characters will confuse terminal (/)
    history - lets you view your past commands for the past 500 lines
        - you can pipe with "less" command to see history page by page
        !! - lets you run the last command 
        !(history num) - lets you run the command specified by it's index in the history. EX. !499, runs line 499 from history
        - you can also hit the up button on the keyboard to go to previous commands
        - pressing tab, autocompletes 

5. TYPE, WHICH, AND APROPOS
    - a command is an executable program, a built in shell command, a shell function, or alias (a command we define using other commands)
    type - gives the type of a command
    which - where the command lives on the system, but won't work for built ins or alias commands that're subsititue for actual executables
    help - gives more info about command
        --help - displays the commands supported syntax and some options. EX. mkdir --help
    man - manual page for commands
        - the manual has 8 sections that can be searched. EX. man 5 passwd, looks at the areas in section 5 for passwd
        apropos - used to search man pages. EX. apropos floppy
        what is - gives a short description of the command
        info - gives a detailed description of the command